\documentclass[12pt]{article}
\usepackage{graphics}
\begin{document}
\thispagestyle{empty}
\setcounter{page}{0}
\section*{NYU Physics 2---Final Exam}

\vfill

\paragraph{Name:} ~
\paragraph{email:} ~

\vfill
\noindent
\resizebox{\textwidth}{!}{\input{formulae}}
\vfill

This exam consists of six problems.  Write only in this booklet.  Be
sure to show your work.

\clearpage

\section*{Problem 1}

An oil drop has a mass of $7\times 10^{-14}~\mathrm{kg}$ and a net
charge of $4.8\times 10^{-19}~\mathrm{C}$.  An upward electric force
just balances the downward force of gravity so that the oil drop is
stationary.  What is the direction and magnitude of the electric
field?

\clearpage

\section*{Problem 2}

Draw electric field lines and equipotentials in the $x$--$y$ plane for
a thin, positively charged, conducting, equilateral triangle lying in
the plane.  Draw your picture carefully and annotate it so that it
clearly demonstrates your knowledge.

\vfill

\noindent~\hfill\includegraphics{final1.eps}\hfill~

\clearpage

\section*{Problem 3}

Consider a cylindrical $100~\mathrm{\Omega}$ resistor of radius
$1~\mathrm{mm}$ and length $5~\mathrm{mm}$.

(a) If the resistor is carrying a current of $0.1~\mathrm{A}$, what
is the magnitude and direction of the electric field inside?  Draw a
simple diagram.

\vfill

(b) Since there is an electric field in the resistor, the resistor has
a small capacitance.  Make a (very) approximate estimate of the
capacitance $C$ of the resistor and compute the AC frequency $\omega$
at which the impedance due to the resistor's capacitance exceeds the
impedance due to its resistance.

\vfill ~

\clearpage

\section*{Problem 4}

Sketch the magnetic field lines in the $x$--$y$ plane for two parallel
wires carrying equal and opposite currents in the $z$ direction.  Draw
your diagram carefully so that it clearly demonstrates your knowledge.

\vfill

\noindent~\hfill\includegraphics{final2.eps}\hfill~

\clearpage

\section*{Problem 5}

A metal disk of radius $a$ rotates at angular frequency $\omega$
(radians per second) inside a uniform magnetic field of magnitude $B$
perpendicular to the plane of the disk.

(a) What is the force $\vec{F}_B$ (magnitude and direction) due to the
magnetic field on a point charge $+Q$ at point $P$ inside the rotating
disk, a distance $r$ from the center of the disk?

~

\noindent\includegraphics{final3.eps}

~

(b) What is the potential difference $V$ between the center of the
disk and the outer edge?

\vfill ~

\clearpage

\section*{Problem 6}

\noindent
~\hfill\includegraphics{dc_circuit5.eps}\hfill~\\
In the circuit shown, the switch is closed at time $t=0$.

(a) What are the currents $I_1$ and $I_2$ in resistors $R_1$ and
$R_2$, immediately after the switch is closed?  Clearly justify your
answer with equations or an explanation.

\vfill

(b) What are the currents $I_1$ and $I_2$ as $t\rightarrow\infty$?
Note that you do \emph{not} have to get part (a) to get this part, but
explain your answer.

\vfill ~

\clearpage
\thispagestyle{empty}
[This page intentionally left blank for calculations or other work.]

\end{document}
