\documentclass[12pt]{article}
\input{physics2}
\begin{document}

\section*{NYU Physics 2---Problem Set 9}

Due Thursday 2020 April 16 before lecture.

\paragraph{Problem~\theproblem:}\refstepcounter{problem}%
Look at the $LC$ circuit we discussed in Lecture on 2020-04-07 and
2020-04-09. Make time-aligned plots of the charge $Q(t)$, current
$I(t)$, energy in the capacitor $U_C=(1/2)\,Q^2/C$, energy in the
inductor $U_L=(1/2)\,L\,I^2$, and total energy $U_C+U_L$ as a function
of time over two periods.

Be sure to label very clearly the minimum and maximum values of all
five curves (these will be expressions involving $Q_0, L, C$), and the
time locations of any zero-crossings.

\paragraph{Problem~\theproblem:}\refstepcounter{problem}%
Use very very rough arguments to estimate the inductance, capacitance,
and resistance of a steel key ring that is 1 inch in diameter, made of
wire that is, say, $1\,\mm$ in diameter. Give your answers numerically
in SI units.

\paragraph{Problem~\theproblem:}\refstepcounter{problem}%
Imagine spinning a loop of area $A$ inside a magnetic field $\vec{B}$.
The loop is spinning on an axis in the plane of the loop (so the loop
is flipping over and over).  The spin axis is perpendicular to the
$\vec{B}$-field.  If we spin the loop at angular frequency $\Omega$,
what is the emf induced in the loop as a function of time? Give as
general an expression as you can get.

\textsl{Hint:} Think about how the magnetic flux changes with time,
and this in turn depends on how the area of the loop projects into the
$\vec{B}$ direction.

Now imagine that the loop has total resistance $R$. How much power is
dissipated by this process? That is, how much mechanical power does it
take to spin this loop?

\paragraph{Problem~\theproblem:}\refstepcounter{problem}%
Take a deep breath!
Then take two derivatives with respect to time of this expression:
\begin{equation}
  Q(t) = Q_0\,\exp(-\frac{\gamma}{2}\,t)\,\cos(\omega\,t+\phi)
\end{equation}
The first derivative will have two terms, one with a cosine and one
with a sine. The second derivative will have four terms, two with a
cosine and two with a sine. Now consider the differential equation:
\begin{equation}
  \frac{\dd^2 Q}{\dd t^2} + \frac{R}{L}\,\frac{\dd Q}{\dd t} + \frac{1}{LC}\,Q = 0
\end{equation}
This differential equation can be satisfied by that form for $Q(t)$,
provided that $\gamma$ has some specific relationship to $L, R$ and
$\omega$ has some specific relationship to $L, R, C$. What is that
relationship?

\textsl{Hint:} To find this relationship, all seven terms (one from
the zeroth derivative, two from the first derivative, and four from
the second derivative) must add to zero. But even more importantly,
because this equation must be true \emph{at all times}, all the cosine
terms must sum to zero and all the sine terms must separately sum to
zero. Does that help?

\end{document}

